.TH AHMERGE 1 "1 April 1990" @PASSCAL_REV "PASSCAL MANUAL PAGES"
.SH NAME
ahmerge \- merge or cut individual ah traces of continuous data into one
common ah file.
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBahmerge [ ah_file(s) -s start time -l length -t tolerance ] [ -h ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBahmerge\fR reads an ah file from standard input or ah files specified on
the command line and writes an ah file of one record
to standard output.  If a start time and length are provided, an ah file is
generated containing only the data requested by this start time and length.
The input file(s) contain(s) individual ah records of
continuous data.  The output file is an ah file of one record containing all 
of the data requested from the input but with only one header.
.LP
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-s \fIstart time\fR
Specifies the starting time which will be used in determining the
time window of the output.  
The output begins with the data sample nearest to that time.
If the input does not contain the given start time no output will be produced.
The form of this time is as follows:  YY:MM:DD:HH:MM:SS  with all 
abbreviations being obvious (hopefully).
.TP
\fB\-l \fIlength\fR
Specifies the length of time from the start time which will be
contained in the output ah file.  This value is given in seconds.
In all cases save one, the output file will contain exactly \fIlength\fR
seconds worth of data.  It will be truncated when \fIstart time\fR plus
\fIlength\fR extends beyond the end of the the last data point in the input.
.TP
\fB-t \fItolerance\fR
Specifies the maximum tolerance in milliseconds the program should take
into account when checking the continuity of the data.  This is
necessary when an instrument's clock jumps due to locking and
unlocking.  The default value of \fItolerance\fR is 0 if not specified.
.TP
\fBah_file(s)\fR
If specified, the program will attempt to read the ah file(s) appearing
on the command line instead of reading from the standard input.  
.TP
\fB-h\fR
This option returns the usage line.
.LP
If a start time and length are not chosen, \fBahmerge\fR makes an 
attempt to merge all of the input ah records with no consideration of a
starting time or length.  It should be obvious that the options \fB-s\fR
and \fB-l\fR are
mutually dependent, i.e. if one is specified, both must be specified.
.LP
\fBahmerge\fR requires that three header values in each ah record being
processed be equivalent from record to record.  These three header values
are the channel number of the instrument, the code (station name) of
the instrument, and the sampling rate for this channel.  Further, the
data in each record must be continuous.  The user need not be concerned with
the input ordering of the ah records, \fBahmerge\fR takes care of the sorting.
An example execution of \fBahmerge\fR might be:
.nf

  cat *.1.ah | ahmerge -s 90:4:6:19:44:50 -l 22200 >merged.1.ah
or
  ahmerge *.1.ah >merged.1.ah
.fi
.LP
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
When two files are found to be not continuous, a message is printed to stderr
indicating to the user the number of milliseconds by which the two files
differ.  This will allow the user to determine what value of \fItolerance\fR 
to use when forcing the merging of two traces.
.LP
.SH AUTHOR
Richard I. Boaz, February 1991.
